
@startuml

start
: Topic is recognized - "apartment";
: Get started on finding a home as soon as possible,
  especially if you’ll be living in a big city like
  Stockholm, Gothenburg or Malmö.
  You can rent ‘first-hand’ or ‘second-hand’ in Sweden.
  First-hand (första hand) means you sign an agreement
  with the owner of the building, while second-hand
  (andra hand) means you sign an agreement with someone
  who owns the flat or has the first-hand contract on the flat.;

while (Want more info about housing in Sweden?) is (yes)
    switch (What do you want to know?)
    case ()
        group ‘first-hand’
        : In the big cities, obtaining a first-hand contract
          generally requires several years of queueing.
          If you are considering a longer stay in Sweden,
          you might consider signing up at a “bostadskö” asap.
          Most Swedes sign up as soon as they are allowed
          (nowadays once they turn 18) and the waiting time
          on these “bostadskö” are very long. However,
          if you are patient and not too picky about
          your choice this might be an option.;
        : Here you can find the links to the main queues
          in Sweden: <link>;
        end group
    case ()
        group ‘second-hand’
        :For second-hand contracts, there are many dedicated accomodation
        websites. Most ads are in Swedish, but you will find some
        in English too.
         - blocket.se
         - qasa.se
         - samtrygg.se
         - beresident.se;
        :Write an outstanding rental application
        Introduce yourself properly. Start by introducing yourself and make sure to mention:
         - Name, age, occupation
         - Mention why you are moving to Sweden (for work, study, etc.).
         - Explain who is going to live with you and why.
        Good things to mention if you have them
         - Stable income or a permanent job.
         - No payment defaults.
         - References from previous landlords or your employer.;

        end group

    endswitch
endwhile (no)
stop
@enduml

